Partial autocorrelation can
be a pretty tricky concept.
It is the correlation between
two variables controlling for
the values of another set of variables.
For example, if we consider three
consecutive values in a time series,
they all have some amount of
correlation with each other.
The correlation between
the current period and
lag 2 would be autocorrelation.
The same calculation,
controlling for the value of lag 1,
would be partial autocorrelation.
To understand more about
partial autocorrelation,
see the link below the video.
So while the ACF calculate
the correlations of each of the previous
points with a value, the PACF shows
the correlation of these points,
controlling for the values of
all previous lag variables.
Let's take a look at the PACF plot of
our difference toothbrush dataset.
Note that the PACF plot has
a significant spike only at Lag-1.
This means that all autocorrelation
is effectively explained by Lag-1
autocorrelation.
Inspecting the PACF will suggest
how many AR terms you need to use
to explain the article relation
pattern in a time series.
If the partial autocorrelation
drops off at lag number k,
it generally indicates an ARk Model.
If it drops off more gradually,
it suggests a MA model.
Looking at our example,
we see the PACF drops off after Lag-1,
which confirms that our
series suggest an AR-1 model.
Whew, did you get all that?
Let's take a look at a few examples.
Let's jump over to Alteryx to take
a look at where we can find the ACF and
PACF plots.
We'll begin by bringing
in our TBSales.xlsx and
connecting it to a TS plot tool.
In the TS Plot tool configuration,
we'll set our target field to
toothbrush sales, the target field
frequency will be monthly, and
the plot type will be time series plot.
Now, add a browse tool to
the interactive node and hit Run.
At the bottom of the resulting report,
the ACF and PACF plots show the serial
correlation of the series or
how correlated it is with itself.
Correlation coefficient
is on the vertical axis,
while the lag value is
on the horizontal axis.